Earth is the only known planet in this universe where life is possible only because of the availability of water and oxygen.
People working in different fields need water for different purposes such as farmers need water to grow crops, gardeners to water plants, industrialists for industry work, electricity plants to generate hydro-electricity, etc. 
So, we should save clean water for the wellness of our future generations and healthy life of water and wildlife animals. 
People at many places of the world are suffering water scarcity or completely lack of water in their regions.
We should understand the importance of water in our life and stop misusing it with the proper management of usage of water. 
We should also protect clean water from being dirty due to the soil or water pollution. 
We should not waste it into toilet and store rain water for this purpose.
Water is the basic requirement of our body and thus life. 
Water is also named as life because of being important element for all the living beings. 
Noting can survive without water on the earth.
Cricket is a most famous outdoor game played in India on national and international level. 
It is a passionate game of India played with a bat and a ball. 
There are two teams of the cricket each of them having 11 players. 
It is played for a very common aim of getting maximum scores and number of runs by both of the teams. 
The team wins who get higher score in the end of match. 
There is an action centre called pitch around which the game is played. 
It is played in the big open space and well maintained field from wicket is 68-58 m and small circle of main playing field is 2.64 m.
Cricket is an outdoor game mostly liked by the children and they dream to become a good cricketer in their young age. 
It is played using a bat and a ball in the big open field. 
It is the played in between the two competitor teams having 11 players. 
It is played in the field having a centre of rectangular 22-yard long pitch. 
It is used by the batsman to take a turn while batting and attempting to get score runs as an innings.
The one member of opposite team called bowler delivers a ball to the member of another team called batsman. 
Bowler attempt to hit the ball away from the bat in order to take a wicket of batsman. 
A batsman continues his batting until he gets out by the bowler after doing some fault. 
Whoever team starts batting, continues the batting until his ten batsmen become out or one batsman has completed the specific number of overs of six balls.
Cricket is a professional outdoor game played especially by the boys of many countries on national and international level. 
There are two teams of 11 players each in this outdoor game. 
Cricket is played until 20 overs are completed by each team. 
All the Laws, rules and regulation are maintained by the International Cricket Council and Marylebone Cricket Club. 
It is played for Test matches and One Day Internationals. 
Earlier it was played in the southern England during 16th century. 
However, during 18th century it was developed as a national sport of England.
During the expansion of British Empire it was started playing overseas and by 19th century a first international match was held by the ICC (a governing body) with two teams having 10 members each. 
Cricket is the most popular game played in many countries like England, Australasia, West Indies, Indian subcontinent, and Southern Africa. 
Small children in India are very fond of this game and generally used to play the cricket in small open place, most probable on the roads or parks. 
It is a very simple game if played and practiced on daily basis. 
Cricket players need to practice this game on daily basis to remove every small fault and get fluency.
Cricket is my favourite game than all other outdoor games in India. 
I used to play cricket in front of my house in the park with my school friends and neighbours. 
Cricket is a game originated in British Empire (an English origin) however started playing in many countries. 
We need a bat and a ball to play this game. 
The cricket game came in vogue and gained popularity by 18th century. 
There are two teams in cricket with 11 players in each, two umpires to notice the faults according to the law and judges all the fair and unfair while playing the cricket. 
Before stating the game, a coin is tossed by the captain of any team to decide which team start batting first and other one bowling.
Both of the teams get the chance of batting alternatively however the team who win the toss do batting first and opposite team do bowling. 
Cricket has become one of the most fascinating games in India from points of view of the observers. 
When any national or international level cricket game is fixed to play, highly interested people become so excited a week before the start of the game. 
Many cricket lovers start booking tickets to see the live and onsite cricket game in the stadium instead of seeing on TV or news. 
Our country has become one of the famous countries in the field of cricket playing all over the world. 
Many times India has won the world cup and many test matches.
Cricket is the exciting outdoor game in India and played in many countries all through the world. 
It is not so popular in Unites States however played as a most fascinating game in many countries like India, England and Australia. 
It is a wonderful game played using a bat and a ball in the open space in the big field. 
It is my favourite sports. 
I generally used to see only cricket on the TV whenever any national or international cricket competition takes place. 
In cricket there are two teams having 11 players in each team. 
One team starts batting first and another team do bowling according to the toss winning. 
The team who win toss do batting first however both of the teams can do batting alternatively.
There are many rules in the cricket and one cannot play the cricket without knowing the rules and regulations properly. 
It is played well when play ground becomes dry however there exist some problems when ground gets wet. 
One batsman gets chance to do batting until he gets out of the game. 
Whenever match starts everyones enthusiasm runs high and a high pitch sound of people gets spread all over the stadium, especially when favourite batsman does through a chauka or chhakka ball. 
Sachin Tendulkar is my favourite cricketer and would be. 
He had made a new record in the cricket history of India. 
I completely forget to eat anything for whole day whenever he played his cricket match on national or international level.
Cricket is a hard however simple game if practiced on regular basis. 
I too, very fond of playing the cricket and play daily in the evening in the play ground near my house. 
My parents are very helpful and motivate me always to play cricket very well.
Young boys are highly affected by this game and almost everyone wants to be a good cricketer. 
Cricket is not an Indian native game however played with lots of enthusiasm and joy. 
Cricket is played in many countries England, India, Pakistan, Ireland, West Indies, Sri Lanka, Netherlands, Australia, South Africa, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Bangladesh, etc. 
Cricket matches are generally played for five days with one Rest-Day. 
Cricket match is played with two teams of 11 players in each and whole test match contains two innings of first innings and second innings. 
Win and loss in the cricket by any team depends on the highest total runs scored by the teams in their two innings. 
And the team getting maximum runs at the end of the game is declared as the winner of that day match.
Cricket is not a simple game however can be learned and practiced on regular basis by following all the rules and regulations of the cricket. 
There is two main player called one batsman and one bowler at a time and both are changed timely whenever they become out or completed their all number of balls and overs. 
Before starting the cricket match, a coin is tossed to decide which team would start the batting first. 
The team who win the toss starts batting first and opponent team do bowling however both of the teams get chance of batting and bowling alternatively. 
Winning and defeating are two aspects of the cricket game which have made this game most interesting and suspicious. 
Whenever the batsman through the ball for chauka and chhakka, the whole cricket ground and stadium becomes full of high tuned sound of the cricket lovers especially when the most favourite team do batting.
Our lives as human beings started on this planet Earth and since then our  Mother earth has been exposed to external threats of destruction and mistreatment. 
Due to the inherent selfish nature of human beings, beautiful forests have been destroyed, rivers have been polluted and vast open lands have been usurped for building factories or other architectural development. 
Human beings are incessantly involved in such activities as hunting down animals, cutting down trees, releasing poisonous gases in the atmosphere, polluting rivers, etc. 
We do not even realize that we are invoking the anger of mother earth and are putting our existence under severe threat. 
Our earth is literally experiencing several strokes of destructive activities due to which the river beds are going dry, plants are dying and species of mammals have become extinct. 
Yet another grave problem that the world is grappling with in todays time is global warming which has a serious impact on our environment, such as melting down of glaciers, rising sea level and the change of climate at a fast pace. 
So we all must keep a check on our activities and help to bring such situations under control.
Well, it will not require a lot from you. 
For instance, water is an important natural resource, so we should save every drop of water but turning off the tap when not in use and not unnecessarily using flushes or showers as these resulting in the excess wastage of water. 
Then, do not throw garbage in rivers or drain as these activities pollute our water bodies. 
As far as protecting our plants is concerned, do not use chemical pesticides and switch to home remedies or to various other eco-friendly means. 
In addition to this, I will also advice you to not throw your rotten fruits, vegetables, leftover food, discarded teabags, egg shells in the garbage bins and instead use them to prepare organic manure for your home garden. 
Activities, such as composting are prove to be of great help in recycling waste products into useful manures.
Likewise, save your energy consumption. 
Switch off the power button when no one is in the room. 
Do not use personal vehicles, when public transportation can be used. 
In fact, you can even use bicycles for small distances and protect your environment from harmful release of gases. 
Thus, through these simple yet effective measures you can contribute greatly towards saving our mother nature from further exploitation.
Even if Science and Technology has taken a great sway over our lives, we must not forget that as living species we still need to adapt to our immediate natural surroundings for our sustenance. 
Human civilization is rooted in the ecosystem and our actions directly impact this system. 
With the help of technological advancement, human beings have become endowed with the capacity to control his/her environment to a certain extent, but its unfair use results in an ecological crisis. 
Unwarranted technological intervention to control the forces of nature has invited its wrath in various forms, such as tsunami, floods, droughts, heat waves, wildfire, etc.
Besides natural calamities, the damage caused to environment is irreparable, such as reduction of underground water and heavy shortage of fresh drinking water, shrinking of wetlands and forests, wearing away of soil and coral reefs, disappearance of plants and loss of living organism, rapid extinction of  different species of animals as well as failing of fisheries, the growing pollution of water and air, increase in temperature due to global warming, the contraction of ozone layer and poisoning of seas, rivers and underground resources.
With this continuous depletion of natural resources, we are putting our own lives under great peril and the day is not very far when drinking water, fresh air, petroleum, natural gas and the top soil of earth will become exhaust for our future generation. 
So its high time that we keep a close watch on our environment and protect it from the possible dangers, especially exploitative human activities.
The nature of earth is a gift from god for the survival of living beings. 
Nature on earth has many features like different climatic conditions, mountains, plateaus, rivers, oceans, trees, plants, etc. 
We all are using them since our birth till today. 
Nature is shrinking and our needs are expanding day by day. 
The day will not be so far from now if we will not understand the signs of the nature.
Nature is the only reason for the survival of all the livings beings on earth. 
We all know that today, the condition of earth is not in a good state. 
We all are using natures components but are not interested in the needs of nature. 
Nature is getting ruined day by day for the fulfillment of our needs. 
There are many reasons for todays bad condition of the nature such as  excess use of fuels, CFLs, population explosion, deforestation etc and many wrong things which most of the people do in their daily life such as keeping the lights on even when they are not in use, excess use and waste of water by keeping taps on etc. 
This is very unfortunate that many of us are still have a careless behavior against these problems. 
Whole earth is getting polluted because of our lifestyle and selfishness towards nature. 
We have used too much of the natures components that many of its components are extinct today.
Today, many places on earth are lacking of many natures components due to our carelessness and selfishness. 
There is a shortage of water for drinking and for the other purposes, lack of fresh air etc and the only reason behind this is our selfishness. 
If we will not change our selfish behaviour towards nature, then it will lead to the end of our earth. 
The only way to protect us and our earth from destruction is by changing our lifestyle of using technology excessively and by understanding our duty towards natures conservation.
Many places on earth are facing many problems regarding ecological imbalance such as- drought, floods, landslides, melting of glaciers etc due to our excess use of nature. 
The creator of these problems is the man and his unnecessary needs. 
We all are busy in our hectic life and forgets that we our surviving in this world only because of nature. 
We do not forget to use natures products but we do forget to do something for natures conservation. 
There is nothing in this world without nature and we have to do something for her conservation.
There are many things to do for natures conservation. 
As many places are facing drought due to less rainfall and thus to overcome this problem, we could do rainwater harvesting and limited use of water. 
There are many other problems like melting of glaciers, lack of oxygen (O2) and increasing amount of carbon-dioxide (CO2) in air due to excess use of fuels, HCL, CFL, industrialization, construction of dams etc. 
There are many solutions to these problems like reforestation, limited use of fuels through car pooling, limited use of electricity, using eco-friendly gadgets etc. 
As there are many solutions to these problems, we have to use these solutions for the conservation of our environment.
We should take a pledge and make a lifelong motto of  Save water, save life, save earth.
We should teach simple methods of water saving to our children, women and other members of the family like turning off all the taps tightly after each use, using sprinklers to water the lawn, giving bath to pets in the lawn, repair of all the leaking pipes, harvesting rain water for purposes like watering plant, washing clothes, etc. 
We should also practice keeping the river (especially Ganga) water clean and safe for future use and safety of water animals.
Water is an urgent necessity of life in all the areas of work like household, agriculture, domestic, industry, etc. 
It is the natures precious gifts to us for the continuity of life on the earth. 
All the living things need more water for their survival as their body consists mostly of water. 
Human body is consists of two thirds of water. 
Water doesnt have any colour, odour, taste and shape however it provides all to us in our life.
The sources which are polluting the underground water are land runoff, drainage, seepage, sewage, atmospheric deposition, precipitation, industrial waste, etc. 
Such wastes get deposited into lakes, rivers, coastal waters, wetlands, etc and meet to the large water bodies and ground water too. 
Other water spoiling sources are use of excess fertilizers, insecticides, herbicides, detergents, soaps, etc from agricultural lands and residential areas. 
Acid drainage from abandoned mines and industries involved in making oil, grease and toxic chemicals are also involved in making water dirty and polluted. 
Such nonpoint sources are the leading cause of water quality problems.
Water saving techniques is also promoted at the social and community level by the municipal water utilities or regional governments through the use of common strategies like public outreach campaigns pay higher price for increasing water use, restrictions on use of clean water for outdoor activities like lawn watering, floor cleaning, car washing, etc.
There should be universal metering for water supply to each home just like electricity. 
This facility is only available some UK households areas and urban Canadian homes. 
It is estimated by the US Environmental Protection Agency that water metering is an effective technique which alone can reduce water consumption by 20 to 40% on daily basis.
The growth of more water-efficient crops adopting less irrigation should be promoted as only crop irrigation takes around 70% of the worlds fresh water.
We should be habitual of reusing or recycling waste water.
We should promote rainwater harvesting, using high-efficiency clothes washers, weather-based irrigation controllers, garden hose nozzles, low flow taps in wash basins, swimming pool covers, automatic faucet, etc for water conservation.
Water saving techniques should also be given priority in the commercial areas as it is a big area where gallons of water can be saved on daily basis.
Water saving techniques in the business areas are like waterless urinals, waterless car washes, infrared or foot-operated taps, pressurized water brooms, cooling tower conductivity controllers, water-saving steam sterilizers (in hospitals and health care units), rain water harvesting, water to water heat exchangers, etc.
Agriculture field is also a vast area where we can save more water on daily basis if we follow water saving techniques. 
We can use overhead irrigation for crop irrigation (using center-pivot or lateral-moving sprinklers), minimize evaporation, runoff or subsurface drainage, etc.
Use of green manures, recycling of crop residues, mulching, animal manure, etc in the field improves the soil organic matter which again increases the water holding capacity and ability to absorb water (during torrential rains) of the soil.
We should use shower heads with low-flow (also called as energy-efficient shower heads), low-flush toilets and composting toilets (instead of conventional western toilets as they use large volumes of water) or dual flush toilets (it uses very less water than others).
Keep the tap close while doing hand wash, tooth brush, face wash, washing dishes, etc.
Collect rain water during rainy season to use in toilet flush, watering plants, sprinkle in garden, etc. 
Using raw water like sea water or non-purified water in toilet is also good.
APJ Abdul Kalam is popularly known as Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam. 
He lives in Indian peoples heart as the Missile Man of India and Peoples President. 
Actually he was a great scientist who invented many new inventions. 
He was the former President of India who born on 15th of October in 1931 (in Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu) however died on 27th of July in 2015 (in Shillong, Meghalaya, India). 
His father name was Jainulabudeen and mother name was Ashiamma. 
His full name was Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam. 
He never got married to anyone. 
He was a great man who has been awareded with the awards like Bharat Ratna (in 1997), Padma Vibhushan (in 1990), Padma Bhushan (in 1981), Indira Gandhi Award for National Integration (in 1997), Ramanujan Award (in 2000), King Charles II Medal (in 2007), International von Karman Wings Award (in 2009), Hoover Medal (in 2009), etc.
Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam was really a true legend for the youngsters of the country. 
He has inspired the new generation of the country through his whole life, career, workings and writings. 
He still lives in the heart of Indian people as the Peoples President and Missile Man. 
He was a scientist and an aerospace engineer who closely linked to the Indias missile programme. 
He later served the country as 11th President of India from 2002 to 2007. 
The full name of APJ abdul Kalam was Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam.
He was born on 15th of October in 1931 at Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu and died on 27th of July in 2015 at Shillong, Meghalaya, India. 
After his graduation from the Madras Institute of Technology, he joined the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO). 
He has worked under a legendary space scientist, Vikram Ambalal Sarabhai (father of Indias space programme). 
He later became the project director in 1969 of Indias first indigenous Satellite Launch Vehicle, SLV-III.
He joined the DRDO (Defense Research and Development Organization) as a scientist where he designed a small helicopter for the Indian Army. 
He also worked under Dr. Vikram Sarabhai as part of INCOSPAR committee. 
Later, he joined the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) in 1969 as project director of Indias first indigenous Satellite Launch Vehicle (SLV-III). 
Because of his great contributions for the development of ballistic missiles in India, he will be forever known as the  Missile Man of India. 
The successful Pokhran-II nuclear tests of 1998 have also involved his important role.
He has been the third President of India who awarded with the Bharat Ratna (first Dr. Sarvapali Radhakrishnan 1954 and second Dr. Zakir Hussain 1963). 
He has also been awarded with the Padma Bhushan in 1981 and Padma Vibhushan in 1990 for his contributions at ISRO and DRDO as well as the Government of India as a scientific advisor. 
He has written many books such as Wings of Fire, Ignited Minds, Target 3 Billion in 2011, Turning Points, India 2020, My Journey, etc.
He joined DRDO as a senior scientific assistant in 1958 where a small team, developing a prototype hover- craft, was headed by him. 
Because of the lack of exciting response from the hovercraft programme, he joined the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO). 
He is widely famous as the  Missile Man of India as he contributed a lot in developing ballistic missiles and space rocket technology. 
He was the driving force behind country in developing the defence technologies. 
His great contributions have brought our country into the group of nuclear nations.
He was a notable scientist and an engineer who also served the country as 11th President from 2002 to 2007. 
Pokhran-II nuclear test of 1998 also has his dedicated involvement. 
He was the man of vision and full of ideas who always aimed at development of country. 
He has highlighted the action plans about country development by 2020 in his book titled as  India-2020. 
According to him, the real asset of the country is its youth thats why he has always motivated and inspired them. 
He said that,  The nation requires role models in leadership who can inspire youngsters.
He was born to the Jainulabdeen and Ashiamma on 15th of October in 1931. 
The financial conditions of his family was little poor so he started supporting his family financially in his early age. 
He started earning money to support his family however never gave up on his education. 
He completed his graduation in 1954 from Saint Josephs College, Tiruchirappalli and aerospace engineering from Madras Institute of Technology. 
After his graduation, he joined Aeronautical Development Establishment of Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO) as a chief scientist however; soon he shifted to the Indian Space Research Organization as a project director of Indias first indigenous Satellite Launch Vehicle. 
He also worked as a Chief Executive of Integrated Guided Missile Development Program which involved in simultaneous development of a quiver of missiles.
Cricket is a most famous and passionate sports of India for many years. 
It is mostly liked by the children. Generally they used to play cricket on any small open places like road, small fields, etc. 
Kids and children are so fond of knowing about the cricket and its rules and regulations. 
Most importantly, it is a very common topic which students generally get as a topic to write essay in the essay writing competition.
Water is most important necessity of life for all the living beings on the earth. Without water no one can exist even for a day. 
We also know that there is very less percentage of clean water means drinking water available on the earth. 
We should not waste clean water and save it for future generations.
We should change our bad habits into positive ones and spread awareness among people about the importance of clean water. 
We should promote the less use and saving of clean water to maintain the continuity of life on the earth.
We have provided below some short and long articles on save water to help students as they generally get assigned by their teachers to write articles either in 300, 500, 600 or 800 hundred words. 
Article writing is now in trend in the schools and colleges during any event celebration. 
It is performed to enhance the English writing skill and knowledge of the students about any topic. 
All the save water articles are written very simply.
Water is the precious gift of God on the earth. 
Life exists on the earth because of the availability of water. 
Itself being tasteless, odorless and colorless, it adds taste, color and nice smell in the life of living beings on the earth. 
It is found everywhere and known as life. 
It takes nothing from us but gives life to us. 
It has no shape but takes the shape of container we store it. 
We find it everywhere in rivers, seas, tanks, wells, ponds, etc but we lack clean drinking water. 
Three-fourth part of the earth is full of water however we need to conserve water as there is very less percentage of clean water.
Without water life is not possible on the earth. 
All the living beings like human, animals, plants, etc need water to grow, develop and live. Water is the only source of all lives here. 
We need water in all the walks of life from morning till night like drinking, cooking, bathing, washing clothes, watering plant, etc.
Three-fourth part of the earth is water however only 2% of the water is usable for us. 
At some places in India, people face water scarcity and draught condition whereas, in other places there is plenty of water available. 
So, the people living in areas with plenty of water must realize its importance and save water.
We are living in the time when we need to save clean water and use it according to our use only. 
People at many places in India and other countries are facing a huge water scarcity. 
They have to depend on the government water supply by tanks or some natural water reservoirs at long distance. 
They have to go for a long distance on daily basis to arrange drinking water. 
They better understand the value of water than the people who have sufficient water supply in their areas. 
The situation of lack of water becomes very terrible for the people who dont have enough water to fulfill their basic needs of drinking, bathing, washing, etc.
India is one of the countries worldwide facing huge level water scarcity today. 
Places in India like Rajasthan and some parts of Gujarat are facing water scarcity where women and girls of the houses cover a long distance on bare foot to just get a pot of water. 
In some cities like Bangalore people have to buy water bottles worth Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 to drink clean water. 
People face more problems during summer months when the daily need of water increases. 
Recently, it is studied that around 25% urban population lacks availability to clean drinking water. 
In some areas, the privatization of water bodies is the main reason of water scarcity.
There are different methods we can follow to save clean drinking water to deal with the water scarcity. 
Rain water harvesting is one of the most effective and suitable method among save water techniques. 
Afforestation is also best method as it reduces the surface runoff and recharges the ground water. 
It promotes underground water conservation. 
By practicing such methods we can conserve more water naturally and ensure the availability of it for future generations.