World Environment Day is a campaign celebrated every year on 5th of June to solve environmental issues by implementing new and effective plans in order to make environment safe, secure and healthy for better future.
It was declared by the United Nations General Assembly in 1972 during the opening of a special conference for environment named as “Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment”.
It is a most important day commemorated annually to spread awareness about environment among people all over the world as well as encourage and motivate them to take positive actions regarding clean and beautiful environment on the earth.
It is celebrated with lots of preparations as a big event of the year during which political attention and public actions are enhanced.
WED was established with various plans, agenda and objectives to remove all the environmental issues from this planet and make it really a beautiful planet.
It was necessary to establish this particular event to focus on environmental problems and give people a face to environmental issues.
Its celebration helps us to understand the importance of healthy environment for our healthy life as well as to empower public to be the active agents of sustainable and environment-friendly development worldwide.
It spreads the common understanding among people that it is must to change their attitudes towards environmental issues to ensure the availability of a safer and more prosperous future to all the nations and peoples.
World environment day campaign is run by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).
Its headquarters are in Nairobi, Kenya however celebrated in over 100 countries all across the world.
It was established in 1972 however celebrated first time in 1973.
The celebration event of it is hosted every year by the different city (known as host city) with different theme (declared by the UNGA).
It is celebrated through the international collaboration of people.
The theme of world environment day celebration 2016 was “fight against the illegal trade in wildlife for life” and host country was Angola.
It focuses to bring people from all countries at one track to deal and combat with the climate changes and improve the management of forests.
It is celebrated with many creative activities such as tree plantation, cultural activities by students, drawing, painting, quiz competitions, debate, lectures, essay writing, banner display, speech recitation, etc on topics related to the environment protection.
Workshops (regarding sustainable project management) are also organized to encourage youths about the environment and climate change issues for safe future on the earth.
In 2009, an environment fair was held in Chennai and Bangalore with the activities like on the spot painting competition, training programmes for students over e-waste management, renewable energy devices, wildlife conservation, rain water harvesting systems, waste recycle and reuse processes, debates on rising global warming, biodegradable wastes, awareness drives about “go green” revolution, etc for eco-friendly infrastructure and energy efficiency to curb global warming and save natural resources.
Television is a form of media that has great ability to influence and brainwash the viewing public. 
The talking box in one’s living room has assumed the overpowering role it plays today as a result of the weakness of society. 
This may seem like a negative view but a society’s strength is based on the relationships between people and when so much time is spent away from others and together with the media, the actions that take place are often times a reflection of what television presents. 
In President Clinton’s speech, he brings forth this very point and he acknowledges the family’s increasing weakness and calls on all people to bring back the values of the past and stop the media from playing such a huge role in our community. 
The overwhelming influence of the media is a constant threat to the maintenance of traditional family values and to the protection of our children’s future. 
Nevertheless, television cannot be changed for it is too big and powerful but compromises can be made that can strengthen society and help keep certain values protected.
Over the past decades, people have less and less time in their hands due to careers, divorces and the constant struggle for success. 
This unfortunately, is resulting in parents spending less time with their children, which is an important responsibility that no one or nothing can replace. 
President Clinton said, “television… may be the third parent, but it can’t be the first or the second”(Clinton, p.173). 
The focus on “parental responsibility”(Clinton, p.174) is what is important and parents must ensure that their children are raised in a controlled and safe environment. 
The media has “more access… to children”(Clinton, p.172) then ever before, and it can develop certain bad habits, patterns and subconscious actions if the individual is too weak to fight its affect. 
Therefore, parents must spend more time with their children, otherwise, the old values will slowly slip away and new ones, established by television, will take their place for good.
Television has incredible power. 
In a society where money signifies success and influence, television has taken its place among the most prosperous of businesses. 
Television cannot be attacked because it can and has successfully stood up to all sorts of challenges. 
The solution of changing its role in society lies within man himself. 
Television, despite many negative aspects, has much to offer. 
It is a great tool for learning, communication and for information. 
Attacking television may deprive us of such benefits therefore this trend must be approached with “more conversation and less combat”(Clinton, p.173). 
Instead of criticizing, we should look for alternatives that, in the long run, will benefit society. 
Just as televisions’ bad influence has settled in slowly in our community, it can slowly be filtered out with time, patience and most importantly with everyone’s cooperation.
We, society, are responsible for making television a threat to traditional values and future generations. 
It is our duty, as a population, to work together to steer away from the tube to the values that will strengthen society. 
Step by step, this can be done and the future will get brighter in the long run.
Television is a form of media that has great ability to influence and brainwash the viewing public. 
The talking box in one’s living room has assumed the overpowering role it plays today as a result of the weakness of society. 
This may seem like a negative view but a society’s strength is based on the relationships between people and when so much time is spent away from others and together with the media, the actions that take place are often times a reflection of what television presents. 
In President Clinton’s speech, he brings forth this very point and he acknowledges the family’s increasing weakness and calls on all people to bring back the values of the past and stop the media from playing such a huge role in our community. 
The overwhelming influence of the media is a constant threat to the maintenance of traditional family values and to the protection of our children’s future. 
Nevertheless, television cannot be changed for it is too big and powerful but compromises can be made that can strengthen society and help keep certain values protected.
Over the past decades, people have less and less time in their hands due to careers, divorces and the constant struggle for success. 
This unfortunately, is resulting in parents spending less time with their children, which is an important responsibility that no one or nothing can replace. 
President Clinton said, “television… may be the third parent, but it can’t be the first or the second”(Clinton, p.173). 
The focus on “parental responsibility”(Clinton, p.174) is what is important and parents must ensure that their children are raised in a controlled and safe environment. 
The media has “more access… to children”(Clinton, p.172) then ever before, and it can develop certain bad habits, patterns and subconscious actions if the individual is too weak to fight its affect. 
Therefore, parents must spend more time with their children, otherwise, the old values will slowly slip away and new ones, established by television, will take their place for good.
Television has incredible power. 
In a society where money signifies success and influence, television has taken its place among the most prosperous of businesses. 
Television cannot be attacked because it can and has successfully stood up to all sorts of challenges. 
The solution of changing its role in society lies within man himself. 
Television, despite many negative aspects, has much to offer. 
It is a great tool for learning, communication and for information. 
Attacking television may deprive us of such benefits therefore this trend must be approached with “more conversation and less combat”(Clinton, p.173). 
Instead of criticizing, we should look for alternatives that, in the long run, will benefit society. 
Just as televisions’ bad influence has settled in slowly in our community, it can slowly be filtered out with time, patience and most importantly with everyone’s cooperation.
We, society, are responsible for making television a threat to traditional values and future generations. 
It is our duty, as a population, to work together to steer away from the tube to the values that will strengthen society. 
Step by step, this can be done and the future will get brighter in the long run.
Social networking is a popular form of communicating with friends around the corner and around the world.
It has become one of the top forms of communication even above the phone.
With the benefit of global communication, however, come risks and negative impacts.
Few today remember the old party lines, but social networking is much like these party lines.
Networkers must be careful what they say because the world is watching.
While networkers have the ability to IM and chat one on one, much of what is said on social networks is viewable by the public.
Like the old party lines, there is no privacy when everyone can see what is said.
Another privacy issue is hacking.
Because social networks do not offer security measures for their users, many of the computers used by networkers are vulnerable to hackers.
Every bit of information on a networker’s computer becomes available to those skilled in this science, often without the knowledge of the networker.
Along with the ability to hack is the ability to plant viruses.
Many viruses today are passed through social networks, often undetected.
Networks are a playing field for computer viruses.
Social networks are largely uncensored.
While this may not seem to be an issue, some of the photos and language used by some networkers is inappropriate for children, yet it is viewable by the public.
Because children of any age may network, everything available to adults is also available to children, and some things simply should not be seen by children.
Along with privacy and censorship comes the issue of cyber predators.
Social networks do not screen their users and have no real way of knowing what kinds of people are using the network.
Social networks offer a hunting ground of sorts to cyber predators seeking out unsuspecting networkers.
Cyber bullies are also able to use social networks as an easy way to blast their prey.
Until social networks find a way to screen its users and disallow predators and bullies, this will continue to be a problem with networking.
One of the greatest impacts of social networking is on the social skills of networkers.
Older generations of networkers learned how to communicate and interact long before networking was even a thought, but much of the younger generations do not interact socially except at school and work, where social interaction is well monitored and minimal.
Social networking has created a serious breach in the ability of young people to communicate and interact with each other.
Children no longer play together; they network.
Adults no longer seek physical companionship; instead, they choose to network and have little or no physical contact.
Employers find that many young people do not have the necessary verbal and social skills to obtain a job.
Often, those lacking the verbal skills to land a job spend much time networking and texting on cell phones.
Not only has social networking impacted the amount of time people spend in physical contact with each other, but it has also caused deterioration in the ability of young people to effectively communicate with potential employers for entry level positions.
Social networking can impact health.
The less a person moves the more weight that person is likely to gain, and few calories are being burned while sitting in front of a computer.
Computer monitors have been proven to cause eye strain, leading to poor eyesight.
Little movement has been proven to lead to muscle weakness, less muscle development and, in some cases, bone loss.
Back, neck, and joint pain have been associated with too much computer use.
Social networkers often spend hours networking, leading to weight and health issues.
Like all things, social networking can be beneficial in moderation.
Unfortunately, moderation and networking do not coincide in today’s society.
Social networking allows for unnecessary risks in privacy, safety, social skills, and health.
Networking, at best, offers such ease of communication that social skills deteriorate, and at worst, is dangerous for children and networkers unaware of the predators lurking in the network.
Women empowerment is the empowerment of women which helps them to take their own decisions by breaking all personal limitations of the society and family. 
Students are generally get this topic to discuss or write some paragraphs or complete essay in their schools. 
Here we have provided some paragraph and essay on women empowerment to help students. 
They can select any women empowerment essay given below according to their need and requirement.
According to the provisions of the Constitution of India, it is a legal point to grant equality to women in the society in all spheres just like male. 
The Department of Women and Child Development functions well in this field for the proper development of the women and child in India. 
Women are given a top place in India from the ancient time however they were not given empowerment to participate in all areas. 
They need to be strong, aware and alert every moment for their growth and development. 
Empowering women is the main motto of the development department because an empowered mother with child makes the bright future of any nation.
There are many formulating strategies and initiating processes started by the government of India in order to bring women into the mainstream of development. 
Women constitute half population of the whole country’s population and need to be independent in every area for the holistic development of women and children.
The most famous saying said by the Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru is “To awaken the people, it is the women who must be awakened. Once she is on the move, the family moves, the village moves, the nation moves”. In India, to empower the women, first it needs to kill all the demons killing women’s rights and values in the society such as dowry system, illiteracy, sexual harassment, inequality, female infanticide, domestic violence against women, rape, prostitution, illegal trafficking and other issues. Gender discrimination in the nation brings cultural, social, economic and educational differences which push country back. The most effective remedy to kill such devils is making women empowered by ensuring the Right to Equality mentioned in the Constitution of India.
Giving priority to the gender equality facilitates women empowerment all over the country. To get the high level goal of women empowerment, it should be promoted from the childhood in each and every family. 
It needs women to be strong physically, mentally and socially. Since the better education can be started at home from childhood, the upliftment of women needs healthy family to bring a holistic development of the nation. 
Still in many backward areas, there is a trend of early marriage and childbirth because of the poverty, insecurity and illiteracy of the parents. 
In order to empower women, various steps have been taken by the government to prevent violence, social separation, gender discrimination and abuse against women.
108th Constitutional Amendment Bill (also called Women’s Reservation Bill) was passed to reserve one-third of the seats for women only in the Lok Sabha to make them actively involved in every area. 
In other fields also the seats for women have been reserved for their active participation without any limitation and competition. 
Various mass campaigns need to be organized in the backward rural areas to make them aware about the real values of women and all the facilities available by the government for their bright future. 
They need to be promoted for the survival and proper education of female child to really bring the dream of women empowerment come true.
Gender inequality is the main social issue in India in which women are getting back in the male dominated country. 
Women empowerment needs to take a high speed in this country to equalize the value of both genders. 
Uplifting of women in all means should be the utmost priority of the nation. 
Inequalities between men and women in the society generate lots of problems which become a big obstruction in the way to success of nation. 
It is the birth rights of the women to get equal value to the men in the society. 
To really bring empowerment, every woman needs to be aware about their rights from their own end. 
They need to take positive steps and involve in every activities instead of only involving in the household chores and family responsibilities. 
They should know about all the happenings in their surroundings and country.
Women empowerment has the power to change many things in the society and country. 
They are much better than men to deal with certain problems in the society. 
They can better understand the disadvantages of the overpopulation for their family and country. 
They are fully able to handle the economic conditions of the family and country through proper family planning. 
Women are capable enough to handle any impulsive violence in comparison to the men whether in the family or society.
Through women empowerment, it can be possible to change the male dominated country into the equally dominated country of rich economy. 
Empowering women may easily help to grow each and every member of the family without any extra effort. 
A woman is considered to be responsible for everything in the family so she can better solve all the problems from her own end. Empowerment of the women would automatically bring empowerment of everyone.
Women empowerment is the better treatment of any big or small problems related to human being, economy or environment. 
In few last years, the advantages of the women empowerment are coming out in front of us. 
Women are being more conscious about their health, education, career, job and responsibilities towards family, society and country. 
They are taking part in the every area and showing their great interest in each field. Finally, after long years of hard struggle they are getting their rights to go ahead on the right track.
As we all know that India is a male dominated country where males are dominated in every area and females are forced to be responsible for only family care and live in the home including other many restrictions. 
Almost 50% of the population in India is covered by the female only so the full development of the country depends on the half population means women, who are not empowered and still restricted by many social taboos. 
In such condition, we cannot say that our country would be a developed in the future without empowering its half population means women. 
If we want to make our country a developed country, first of all it is very necessary to empower women by the efforts of men, government, laws and women too.
The need of women empowerment arose because of the gender discrimination and male domination in the Indian society since ancient time. 
Women are being suppressed by their family members and society for many reasons. 
They have been targeted for many types of violence and discriminatory practices by the male members in the family and society in India and other countries as well. Wrong and old practices for the women in the society from ancient time have taken the form of well developed customs and traditions. 
There is a tradition of worshipping many female goddesses in India including giving honour to the women forms in the society like mother, sister, daughter, wife and other female relatives or friends. 
But, it does not mean that only respecting or honouring women can fulfil the need of development in the country. 
It needs the empowerment of the rest half population of the country in every walk of life.
India is a famous country proving the common proverb like ‘unity is diversity’, where people of many religious beliefs are in the Indian society. 
Women have been given a special place in every religion which is working as a big curtain covering the eyes of people and help in the continuation of many ill practices (including physical and mental) against women as a norm since ages. 
In the ancient Indian society, there was a custom of sati pratha, nagar vadhu system, dowry system, sexual violence, domestic violence, female infanticide, parda pratha, wife burning, sexual harassment at work place, child marriage, child labour, devadashi pratha, etc including other discriminatory practices. 
All such type of ill practices is because of male superiority complex and patriarchal system of the society.
Socio-political rights (right to work, right to education, right to decide for themselves, etc) for the women were completely restricted by the male members of family. Some of the ill practices against women have been eliminated by the open minded and great Indian people who raise their voices for the discriminatory practices against women. 
Through the continuous efforts of the Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Britishers were forced to eliminate the ill practice of Sati paratha. 
Later, other famous social reformers of the India (Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Acharya Vinoba Bhave, Swami Vivekananda, etc) also had raised their voices and worked hard for the upliftment of women in Indian society. 
In India, the Widow Remarriage Act, 1856 was initiated by the continuous efforts of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar in order to improve the conditions of widows in the country.
In the recent years, various constitutional and legal rights have been implemented by the government of India in order to eliminate ill practices and gender discrimination against women. 
However, in order to solve such a big issue, the continuous effort of everyone including women is required. 
Modern society is being more aware about the women rights which results in the increasing number of several self-help groups, NGOs, etc working in this direction. Women are being more open minded and breaking the societal barriers in order to achieve their rights in all dimensions even after crimes are going side by side.
Some of the acts passed by the Parliament are Equal Remuneration Act-1976, Dowry Prohibition Act-1961, Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act-1956, Medical termination of Pregnancy Act-1971, Maternity Benefit Act-1961, Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act-1987, Prohibition of Child Marriage Act-2006, Pre-Conception & Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation and Prevention of Misuse) Act-1994, Sexual Harassment of Women at Work Place (Prevention, Protection and) Act-2013, etc in order to empower women with legal rights.
In order to provide safety to women and reduce crime against women in India, government has passed another act Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Bill, 2015 (especially after Nirbhaya case when an accused juvenile was released). 
This act is the replacement earlier Indian juvenile delinquency law of 2000 (Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000) in order to reduce the juvenile age from 18 to 16 years in cases of heinous offenses.
In order to really bring women empowerment in the Indian society, it needs to understand and eliminate the main cause of the ill practices against women which are patriarchal and male dominated system of the society. 
It needs to be open-minded and change the old mind set against women together with the constitutional and other legal provisions.
There is a high potential of early school leavers and those not learning at school to remain outside the world of employment. 
These children when they grow remain at a risk of not having secured jobs and thus remain trapped in the intergenerational cycle of poverty and deprivation. 
It is imperative to relook at what we as a nation are investing in our children’s education.  
We are approaching 6th Anniversary of Right to Free and Compulsory Education and it is crucial that state reviews its strategies in order to reverse this trend.
The situation is also reflected in the state figures. 
While 45% of child labourers in Bihar are illiterate, in Rajasthan and Jharkhand the figure stands at 40%. 
Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh also have about 38% child labourers as illiterate.
With the education indicators for these children plummeting, the reasons why we face this challenge needs to be addressed. 
India’s legal framework is based on the assumption that children can work and still be educated. 
The numbers stated earlier blatantly contradict this assumption and are evidence enough that this needs to change, for main as well as marginal child labourers. 
In 1992 when India ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC), a reservation was made in article 32, wherein the Government of India articulated that it would progressively ban all forms of child labour. 
Now, after 30 years since the Child Labour Law came into force, India has the opportunity to amend the law in favour of its children.
However, the proposed amendment in the Child Labour law leaves a glaring gap in the prohibition of labour for children under the age of 14. 
The new law also allows children in this age group to work in family occupations after school hours.
The Census 2011 data for children in labour, states that 6.5 million children in India in the age group of 5 to 14 years work in agriculture and household industries. This makes a staggering 64.1% of child labourers in this age group. 
CRY’s on ground experience reveals that a large number of children engaged in these occupations are working with their families, thus exempting them from the proposed ban. 
Allowing children to work in family enterprises is likely to have far reaching implications affecting not only their education and learning outcomes but also their health and overall development.
Child labour in India, somehow, has become a social norm that we accept and tolerate in our society. 
This exploitative and abusive practice will continue unless society adopts a zero tolerance attitude towards it. 
Children continue to be exploited and abused because the State and people do not address children’s issues comprehensively and effectively.
In crude terms fashion is a style of living. 
There are aristocratic fashions, film-style fashions, peasant class fashions and a kind of fashion known as maverick fashion. 
Naturally it is related to dress and manners. 
But manners imply something deeper than fashions. 
Because fashion is comparatively superficial, and changes with the winds of change in certain races and people.
At one time Paris dictated fashions in dress. 
Today, however, the climate has changed. 
In India the film world dominates and craze for the queer and the unconventional is gaining ground. 
The styles of dressing are always in a fluid state, and before one fashion sets a foothold another pushes it out. 
New films pop up every year with queer innovations in dress, the young ladies promptly copy them, and the tailor masters make new bucks fast, and thereby hang a tale. Let alone young maidens, even elderly ladies are lured by the new fashion.
Today the modern improvement in cosmetics claim to make the old hags and frumps look tolerably young and smart. 
Thus fashion craze has banished sobriety.
Among men the fashion trend does not remain confined to smartness only. 
The maverick style infects a class. 
They wear steel bangles, put on crystal necklaces and even wear earring in one ear.
Life has become fast and distrust for tradition is becoming a cult today. 
But today smoking and even drinking is no taboo in some societies. 
The joint families today are in ruins, and even the family units are slack and sloppy. 
Naturally parental care, affection and family discipline become the severest victims of changing fashion.
Friendship is a feeling of mutual trust, support and affection between two people. 
A friend can be a companion, work-mate, class-mate or any person with whom our feelings of affection are attached. 
There is a mutual exchange of emotions, trust and supports among friends.
It is said that “birds of a feather flocks together“. 
Just like birds, friendship grows between people of same age, because they have similar interests, passions, emotions and sentiments. 
For example, students of the same age group have shared vision towards their future goals and they come closer to help each other. 
Similarly, people in business organizations work together to achieve the organizational goals. 
They work together for the company and make new friends. 
In some cases, we make our best friends for life at our workplace.
We cannot spend our days alone. Our pleasure grows greater in the company of friends.
They do not feel the rigors of life. In distress, friends help one another. They help us to overcome any depressive situation and build our self-esteem.
We share happiness and love with our friends.
If we are confused, we can discuss our problem with our friends and get honest opinions.
We confide our secrets to a friend, and can trust him in everything we hold dear.
Real friendship is rare. 
Many people gather around people in power to serve their own selfish ends under the garb of friendship. 
They remain with their friends as long as their selfish needs are met. 
They leave their friends when their power and pelf are gone. 
Such selfish friends are many in this world. 
Such friends are more dangerous than enemies and people should be cautions of such friends. 
It is difficult to find a real friend.
Good friends are trustworthy, loyal and honest.
They listen and pay attention to what we are saying.
They easily forget and forgive us for our mistakes.
They do not judge us on the basis of our material possessions, success, power, or money.
They do not hesitate to give us valuable suggestions for our benefits.
They share their moments of joy with us.
They are ready to help us any-time. At the same time, they freely ask us for help when in need.
They support in our personal and professional life.
They encourage us to do what we really love to do.
Most importantly, Good friend value our presence in their life. 
They give us immense love and accept us the way we are.
Teachers have the very important responsibility of shaping the lives of young, impressionable children. With this responsibility comes great pride and joy. 
Therefore all teachers should strive for what can be considered to be a "good teacher." 
A good teacher can be defined as someone who always pushes students to want to do their best while at the same time trying to make learning interesting as well as creative. 
A positive or negative influence from a teacher early on in life can have a great effect on the life of a child. 
Teachers, especially at the elementary level, must be very creative with their teaching styles. 
Not every child learns the same way, nor are they interested in the same things. 
It is difficult to keep the attention of 15-20 children under the age of ten. 
Classroom setup and design is a good way to get and keep the attention of students.