

Three-fourth part of the earth is water however only 2% of the water is usable for us. 
At some places in India, people face water scarcity and draught condition whereas, in other places there is plenty of water available. 
So, the people living in areas with plenty of water must realize its importance and save water.
We are living in the time when we need to save clean water and use it according to our use only. 
People at many places in India and other countries are facing a huge water scarcity. 
They have to depend on the government water supply by tanks or some natural water reservoirs at long distance. 
They have to go for a long distance on daily basis to arrange drinking water. 
They better understand the value of water than the people who have sufficient water supply in their areas. 
The situation of lack of water becomes very terrible for the people who don’t have enough water to fulfill their basic needs of drinking, bathing, washing, etc.
India is one of the countries worldwide facing huge level water scarcity today. 
Places in India like Rajasthan and some parts of Gujarat are facing water scarcity where women and girls of the houses cover a long distance on bare foot to just get a pot of water. 
In some cities like Bangalore people have to buy water bottles worth Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 to drink clean water. 
People face more problems during summer months when the daily need of water increases. 
Recently, it is studied that around 25% urban population lacks availability to clean drinking water. 
In some areas, the privatization of water bodies is the main reason of water scarcity.
There are different methods we can follow to save clean drinking water to deal with the water scarcity. 
Rain water harvesting is one of the most effective and suitable method among save water techniques. 
Afforestation is also best method as it reduces the surface runoff and recharges the ground water. 
It promotes underground water conservation. 
By practicing such methods we can conserve more water naturally and ensure the availability of it for future generations.